# SEIR_model
The COVID-19 pandemic has resulted in a significant loss of human life around the world and it poses an unprecedented threat to public health, food systems, and the workplace. Since then, researchers from all around the world published a great number of COVID related papers and articles. In this scientific report we will study one of the papers which used a modified SEIR model applied to data of COVID-19 spread in Saudi Arabia. In this present study we will briefly analyze the structure of the model. We will look into such statistical simulation which further has been compared to real time data to test for accuracy. We conclude from these simulations the protocols through which we can reduce the outbreak. We will explain mathematical concept to have better understanding about the model methodology. Moreover, we will also calculate R0 by using different method called next generation matrix method NGM to see the R0 we have seen in the paper is same with other methods. Furthermore, we will discuss the local stability and sensitivity of the model at disease free equilibrium DFE. We will provide an extended model by adding a new parameter and calculate the corresponding reproduction number. Further examining the stability of R0 following the technique mentioned in our assigned paper. For comparison with changes of various embedded parameters we will plot different graphs to observe the changes more clearly. The whole idea of building compartmental models and running simulations is to avoid an epidemic and study how a disease behaves in long term.
